Hello again, you delightful guy to people in this video.
We're going to move our game forward a bit by creating a tutorial.
We can make more and more levels, make them bigger and more complicated with longer combinations,
more gods and all the rest of it.
But one thing we haven't looked at is how to teach the players how to play.
So to do that, we're gonna make a tutorial level is a lot for the player to figure out.
Let's help them.
However, before we do that, let's figure out what the tutorial should be.
Now, the main thing I want with a tutorial is choice.
I want to choose when to use the tutorial.
I hate when I'm playing a game the second time, the third time I've played it before or I already know
how to play.
And it insists on making me walk through this material every time the first time you do it.
That's not so bad.
But if you revisit the game a year later or the scientists start your campaign over or whatever, it
might be having to go through the tutorial every time.
It's just it's awful.
It's one of my least favorite things about Skyrim, to be honest.
If you've played Skyrim, which is a really impressive game.
Like, I love that game.
If you play Skyrim your first, what, 19 hours, it feels like it's not 19 hours.
It's probably closer to ten minutes.
Is sitting there having dialogue thrown at you in a cart.
Just let me play.
So we'll have optional tutorials.
This thing, we're going to teach the player how to do stuff.
There's a lot of things we could teach the player how to do.
I'm going to focus on the following movie interacting with things.
The fact you have to be within range of a thing and click on it, that's not going to be obvious.
How to use night vision key gameplay element.
We should teach the player how and when to do it, how to collect loot and why to collect loot.
You can only go through the exit once you have the loot.
So in this video, which is going to make the tutorial, lay things out and prepare the way to make
all that work.
So let's do that.
Let's get into it and go to new inherited sin and then inherit from our template level tallo template
level.
Let's call this tutorial.
The capital C. and save it as tutorial.
Awesome.
Now we've got everything we need in here to make a full level.
I'm just gonna make sure my vision mode is nice and dark because we need that.
And let's start making some spaces and we'll start in a big, well lit room.
So let's get ready you and let's draw out a nice big room.
That's interesting shape.
Could you do.
And that feel good starting.
I'm going to take my horizontals.
But Tom at Good Bucket Phil BOPE.
And act you paint tile.
I can also use PMG to do that.
OK, so the first thing on the plan to do is be in this nice, dark, nice, bright room surrounded
by darkness.
For that to work, I need a light source.
Can you light a tutorial back at the root a..
I want to add using control.
A new light 2D.
We've done this before.
And like you, he is going to need some kind of light map now under light maps of what he got open,
we do have the torch.
We could use that.
Let's pop vision my back on so we can see what that looks like and will want shadows enabled.
So it's an able shadow.
And you'll notice straight away the shadows are weird because the light map is being protected from
the center.
So we don't need an offset.
Now, this is a what is that a 600 wise?
I want to offset it by 300.
And now it's in a much better make Shoreman move and move it across the player.
Yeah, I'm pretty happy with that.
You know what?
I'm going to move it to this corner.
I would rotate it a bit.
And let's actually put it right on that corner.
Give that corner recent exist, sure, not inside the wall.
And I'm actually gonna duplicate that and move this one down to here.
And use E to rotate.
That's looking pretty good.
Now, we could make this big with scale, and that is probably a good idea.
Let's make this a bit bigger with scale.
So transform.
Let's do a scale of one point five in both directions.
Do the same thing with light 2d one to transform.
Scale one point five in each direction.
Why?
Because I want to hit this wall one out here, this wall.
Because that's where the door's going to be.
So we want to teach players, one, how to move around.
So just do the basic controls and then let's just get rid of light vision mode and hide my true light
moment and then we to lead them to this door.
Okay, so back to the tile map.
Let's make a little space of the door.
A little space.
The door.
And then your open up to the next room.
And that tells me we need a door.
Great.
Let's put the door in.
Well, we to have an organizing place for doors.
I'm going to go in to hear an instance in a door.
And let's move you into the right place.
Go transform and just rotated by 90 degrees, and that's looking almost line up, isn't it?
Let's just move you up a little bits.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
I like that.
Okay, let's see how that looks.
And remote with the lights back on, all the lights hitting the door just about.
Don't worry.
If they're not fully hitting the door, we are going to highlight it.
But I will move it slightly closer just so it's a little bit more visible.
We're going to have it slightly closer by having some areas.
A little vision market is going to pop up this coming up.
Future videos for now.
Let's get rid of our vision mode.
I say get rid of I mean, hide and hide both of our light sources, just like you often do.
OK, so moving doors now, night vision to teach the player how to use night vision.
I'm going to have a long, winding, dark Kadal greatness of a long winding Acardo back into Tiel map.
Draw this out in the walls.
Let's say I want to move up this way.
And then down here, you know what?
Let's make you a little more narrow.
Here we go.
How's that look?
This way, go this way.
Yeah, I think that's going to be nice and.
Missile slalom moment there.
And I think that's pretty good.
And here we can move down that way.
Great.
And you know what will fill this area and fill this area in play?
Probably won't see it.
But just for the look of it, that's looking fine.
And that's going to bring us into this room.
So let's move into a horizontal floor and move our vertical floors, rather, and put vertical floors
on this side of the door.
Just it looks like a different room.
And then I'm going to have a Tom map and bucket fill up and I filled it.
And now back to tile map and paint fill.
So I don't remove all the walls.
OK, so that's going to be our you have to you should really change vision most into this.
You know what?
Let's just make this even more so.
Great.
Let's see how that works.
I'm going to press this button here to run this scene and let's walk through hipping lights, have a
license, put the lights back on and on a press.
This place seen the price of Sextus pressie placing a button.
Okay, so a little bit too much light.
I could turn down the intensity of the light, but we can see the door.
But the door isn't casting shadows, weighing on casting shadows.
I bet I know why.
I'm going to open my door saying it's because I've hidden the lights.
Let's unhide that.
Save it and come again.
And the door now blocks light.
Let's take a look at that again.
Click here.
And the door now blocks light.
Darkness.
And that's looking pretty good.
OK.
If you'd noticed a quick jump in the footage there.
It's because Mike got a crash.
He edited out the crash.
But it's all I can now.
OK, so we've got this area and actually the little room to put my briefcase.
So let's make this a nice big open room with walls to try to do.
And the next room's gonna be the exit.
Now, I want to teach the player.
You should really have the briefcase before you do this.
So to do that, I am going to put the exit before the briefcase.
So the exit will be here.
The briefcase will be there.
And let's just.
Paint, all of that's.
I get a bucket fill.
OK.
There's my exit room.
There's a little doorway there.
And you know what?
Let's put a doorway here and here.
And yeah, it's looking pretty good.
All right.
So that's gonna be that area.
Now, let's bring in an exit.
So I'm going to go to my exit over here and I want to move that to, let's say, a year and we need
a briefcase.
So that's when we had the loot.
And I'm an instance in a briefcase.
And let's move that to over here.
And I feel pretty solid about that.
OK?
I wouldn't say I might do me a take.
Well, these lights and a controlled deed duplicate it and I move it.
Here, use E to rotate it just to look at the loot.
OK, so let's test this level again.
Did you do to do this through here?
Can't really see them doing and kind of can.
I can make that DOCA.
And yet that's all very nice as an exit.
I can't go through the exit.
I pick up the briefcase and I'm back stopped.
And that is actually Turrill level made out.
We can tweak it.
We can change it.
We could even go in and put some furniture in.
So that's going to furniture.
I would have gotten some potted plants.
That's good.
Maybe a little waiting room here.
You can play with this and make it as fancy as you like.
Give us some more potted plants around like potted plants and.
Yeah.
Let's put a little sofa in here so I can rotate with these buttons.
Boop.
And Mira.
So there we go.
There is my beginning tutorial level, and I'm quite happy with it.
So my challenge to you is to make your tutorial level.
Make sure there's a door.
A section for night vision, a briefcase and an exit.
I'm not going to ask you to pause the video because you've seen me do it.
But give that a shot.
And when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video.